The application of a media-substrate theory of craftsmanship
or of the representation of objects and their values 
as a model for abstract data types and structures in general.

The domain of discourse of our media-substrate theory is 
the class of all abstract and concrete objects. 
The interpretation of the media-substrate theory is a class of
of abstract objects that represent any kind of object.

Hypothesis
If Type theory serves and functions as a valid foundation for mathematics,
then our media-substrate theory of craftsmanship is valid as well for the same purposes.
That is, our media-substrate theory of craftsmanship is a substrate of mathematical
value.

Motivation
As an artist, a notion of craftsmanship is immediately evident
when confronted with a blank canvas. But it is only an aspect
of the pratice of art. As a mathematician, I am interested in
assessing the powers of expression, and can't help but seeing 
the blank canvas as a symbol for the empty set. As a computer 
scientist, I want to formally specify any kind of media or 
substrates as a generic kind of abstract data type that can 
be fed into a computer for analysis and manipulation, and for 
the creation of new types. It would be very neat to have a 
conceptual framework that is fundamentally true against which
to formally model any object given some kind of expression
that discriminates between objects of its kind or sufficient 
information to implement it. That is, I may want to model
oil paint being placed on a canvas and oxidizing or whatever. 
Or a biologist might want to construct a formal model of 
some weird, complex biological process, it would be good to know 
there's an algorithm for it. The Catholic in me sees nothing
but the Hands of God, reaching to the poor, full of boons and
gifts and Goods for the betterment of humanity as a symbol
of Peace for all nations and as sign of the direction of
Intelligent Evolution. In contrast to the recent over-hyped
developments on artificial intelligence (S0rry!)...
As a type designer, I hear the words type, sorts, canvas,
and can't help but feel like there's some kind of recursive
metaphor that I should know about. As a media producer, I just
want to produce good content of good values and turn a profit.

Status: UNFINISHED!

An idea of craftsmanship 
Craftsmanship is the disciplined application of a body of knowledge 
to produce an object of value. For no one can escape their own existence,
let alone, the rule of order!

The Abstraction part of the Problem
In general, how to represent the values of any object A with values 
of some abstract object B.

1. An object of value

Definition of an object
Objects may be concrete, abstract or both.
Abstract objects are objects of the mind. 

A mathematical object is an abstract concept that can be a value assigned
to a symbol and be involved in formulas.

Definition of concept
A concept is the interpretation of a symbol.

Definition of Symbol
A logical symbol refers to an idea, and a token (a mark or configuration 
of marks that form a particular pattern) is taken as an instance of the symbol.

Symbols can be logical or non-logical.
Logical symbols have the same meaning regardless of the object studied.
A non-logical symbol changes in meaning depending on the domain of a theory.

Definition of interpretation
An interpretation is the assignment of meaning to the symbols (letters)
of a formal language.

The simplest abstract object is NOTHING.
An abstract object is a set with structure.

To conceive of nothing, we must first exist and be conscious of our existence.
Then, we must formulate a language that interprets the concept of existence and,
within that language express the negation of existence.
Or we could very simply take it as given.

an action or a process that produces 
the type of some value

Definition of Formal Language
A formal language over a non-empty alphabet is a subset of the set 
of all possible words of finite length of that alphabet.

The syntax of a formal language can be defined independently of interpretation. 

Definition of alphabet
An alphabet is a finite or infinite set whose elements are called letters.
Or a set of symbols.

Definition of a word or formula
A word is a finite sequence of letters, whose length is the number 
of letters it is composed of. For any alphabet, there is only
one word of size zero, the Empty Word.

Definition of well-formed word or formula
A symbol or a sequence of symbols may comprise a well-formed formula
of a language if it is consistent with the formation rules of that language.
A word in the set of all possible words of the alphabet of a formal language 
is a well-formed if it is a member of that language.

Definition of structure
A structure consists of a set equipped with operations and relations.
A structure is a triple A = (A, sigma, I)
A is a domain of discourse, the universe, a theory...
sigma is a signature, 
I is an interpretation function that indicates how the signature is to
be interpreted in the domain. (Interpretation depends on signature.)
by assigning functions and relations to the symbols of its signature.

Definition of signature 
A signature lists and describes the non-logical symbols of a formal language, 
or the operations that characterize an algebraic structure, or both.
The signature of a structure is an arbitrary set
sigma = (S, ar), where
S is a set of function symbols and relation symbols and
ar is the arity function or rank function that assigns the number 
of arguments or operands taken by a function, operation or relation 
to their respective symbols.

A single-sorted signature sigma = (F, R, C, ar)
function symbols F
relation symbols R
constant symbols C
ar : F union R -> N

The cardinality of a signature is |sigma| = |F| + |R| + |C|
The language of a signature is the set of all well-formed sentences
built from the symbols in that signature together with the symbols 
in the logical system.

A many-sorted signature is the triple (S, P, Type)
S is a set of sorts
P is a set of symbols
Type is a map from p in P to a symbol type over S

Definition of relational signature
A signature with no function symbols is a relational signature

Definition of algebraic signature
A signature with no relation symbols is an algebraic signature.

Definition of an algebra
A structure with an algebraic signature is called an algebra.

Definition of a relation
A relation denotes some kind of relationship between two objects in a set.
A relation R over a set X can be seen as a set of ordered pairs (x, y) 
of members of X.
If a relation R holds between x and y in X, we may write xRy.

Definition of a function
A function is a binary relation between two sets of objects
that may be injective, surjective or bijective.

Definition of injective or one-to-one
A function F:A->B is injective, if for every element a in A, 
there is, at most, only one b in B such that (a,b) is in F.

Definition of surjective or onto
A function G:A->B is surjective if for every element b in B
there is, at least, one a in A such that (a,b) is in G.

Definition of a bijective or invertible function
A function is bijective if and only if it is both injective 
and surjective.

Definition of an empty function
For every set A there is an empty function from the empty set
to A, and its graph is the empty set.

Definition of an operation
An operation is a function from tuples of elements of a set to 
an element of that very same set.

Definition of the identity funtion
The identity function on a set A is an operation that identifies
an element a in A with itself.

Definition of a tuple
A tuple is a sequence, or an ordered list of objects.

(An n-tuple can be thought of as the image of a function from 
the set of the n first natural numbers to a domain of discourse.
but we haven't defined the naturals yet. In fact we haven't defined 
a set either, let alone the empty set.)

Definition of composition
Composition is an operation on the space of all functions (Oof. What's that?)
where, if the image of a function F is equivalent to the domain
of a function G, then there must be a function called G composed 
with F, whose domain is the domain of F and whose image is the image
of G.

Definition of a class
A class is a collection of sets or other mathematical objects that can
be unambiguously defined by a property that all its members share.

Definition of a proper class
A proper class are entities that are not members of any other.

Definition of a category
A category is formed by two sorts of objects:
The objects of the category and
The morphisms that relate a source object and a target object

A category C consists of the following 3 mathematical entities:
a class of objects 
a class of morphisms
a binary operator of composition of morphisms

Each category is distinguished by properties that all its objects
have in common.
One may characterize the objects of a category in terms of their
relations to other objects.

Definition of type theory
A type theory is a collection of rules of inference that result in judgments.
A type theory has judgments that define types and assigns
to them a collection of formal objects, known as terms.

Examples of judgments in type theories
Most type theories have 4 judgments:
1. T is a type
2. t is a term of type T
3. Type T_1 is equal to type T_2
4. Terms t_1 and t_2 of type T are equal

Definition of judgment
judgment is the evaluation of given state of affairs
to make a decision.

Definition of decision
Decision is an abstract process resulting in the selection
of an object from a set of options. Every decision-making
process produces a final choice.

3. Type systems and type theory
Definition of a type
A type is an object that describes how an element or a finite collection 
of elements in a mathematical structure might behave.
A type is a set of first-order formulas in a language L with free variables
x_1, x_2,..., x_n that are true of a set of n-tuples of an L-structure M.

Definition of a type constructor
A type constructor is an n-ary type operator that takes as argument
zero or more types, returning another type.

Definition of a term
A term is recursively defined in first-order logic as
of a constant symbol, a variable, or a function application

Definition of a sort
A sort is a class of types. 

Definition of a kind
A kind is the type of a higher-order type operator (type constructor).

Definition of a formal system
A formal system is an abstract structure and the formalization of an axiomatic
system.
A formal system is a formal language equipped with a deductive 
or a finite or transfinite inductive system.

Definition of a logical system
A logical system is a deductive system equipped with non-logical axioms.

Definition of a deductive system
A deductive system is the set of axioms and inference or transformation rules used
to derive theorems of the system from others.

Definition of an axiom
Any axiom is a statement from which other statements are logically derived.
Logical axioms are certain formulas in a formal language that are
universally true in its domain of discourse.

Definition of logical axiom
A logical axiom is taken to be true within the system of logic they define. 

Definition of non-logical axiom
A non-logical axiom is an assertion about the elements of the domain
of a specific mathematical theory.

2. The value of an object

Definitions of value
Value is the interpretation of an object within some domain 
of discourse or within some state of affairs.

A value can also be a symbol that represents some concept 
or meaningful structure that encodes the value of a particular
object, or it can be an element of some measurable space.

The value of an object of some type may be produced by some interpretation function.

Values can be intrinsic or instrumental




A notion of measurement
A measurement is a judgment between values.

A notion of judgment
A judgment is any procedure that determines the best representation
of an object from a set of values.

Definition of a known type
A known type is that for which we are capable of discerning (judgment) 
the value of the object referred to by that type under the scrutiny
of some measuring apparatus. Such measuring apparatus is indispensable
for the functioning of a Turing Machine. (the read instruction).

Abstract data types, from the perspective of a Turing machine,
are nothing more than an abstract construct expressed in the 
configuration of information contained in the tape that interpret the value of
a type.

Definition of data
Data are a collection of discrete or continuous values
that convey information.

Definition of a datum
A datum is an individual value in a collection of data.

Definition of a state of affairs
If a relation holds between entities(objects) then the relation together
with the entities constitutes a fact or a state of affairs.

Definition of a fact
A fact is a true datum about one or more aspects of a state of affairs.
facts may be understood as information that makes a true sentence
true.

Definition of data structure
Data structures are concrete representations of data.

An abstract data type is analogous to an algebraic structure

Definition of an Algebraic specification of data types
The syntax of an algebraic specification is formulated in 2 steps
1. Defining a formal signature of data types and operation symbols
2. Interpreting the signature through sets and functions.

the signature of an algebraic specification consists
of a set S of data types, known as sorts with
a family SIGMA of sets, each of which contains operation
symbols (or simply symbols) that relate the sorts.
Definition of container
A container is an object capable of holding other objects.

A concrete container is one capable of holding concrete 
and abstract objects.
An abstract container is one capable of holding
only abstract objects.

Definition of substrate and media
A substrate is any container of media objects.

A medium is an object of value.
An object of value is one whose relations you may determine
from between things of its like.

A substrate is a structure of objects that inform units of some media.

A medium is a structure of objects that inform units of value.

A set is a medium of abstract objects.